---
title: I am joining Sana Labs!
date: 2021-04-16
---

I recently decided to join [Sana Labs](https://www.sanalabs.com/). I am
incredibly excited to dive into product development, the education space in
general and just focusing long-term on something I genuinly find interesting and
challenging. Not only have I found a company that I really believe is onto
something big. I have also decided to leave the freelancing setup in favor of an
employment.

Back in 2018 [I decided to quit my current job](https://antn.se/i-quit-my-job)
and start freelancing. Since then I have had the chance to work on some really
interesting problems with great people. It has been great. I loved almost all of
it, and I am for sure going to miss a few features of that life setup. Being
your own boss comes with a lot of additional work, but to me the sense of
freedom has definitely been worth it. And that is probably why joining Sana Labs
as an employee feels like such a big thing. I am giving up parts of that
flexibility, but I am also adding a few key things to my life.

Independence is something I have strived to achieve for a long time. Financial
freedom and having complete control over my own time has been major goals for
me. And they still are. But I have come to realise that the independence is
fulfilling and desirable in a context where dependable structures still exist to
some extent. Being independent as a freelancer also meant that those dependable
structures vanished.

---

I caught up with my friend Ludvig a few weeks ago. He told me he recently joined
this company called Sana Labs. He explained what they are trying to achieve, all
the great people they have onboard this far, and why he is so excited to get
going there. I have been lacking the passion and drive for a while. You can be a
great consultant in most places without any deep care for the products you are
building.

One thing led to another, and I met up with one of their engineering managers.
From there I did a technical interview and met a few others from the
organisation.

As per usual, I was not particularly happy with how the interviews went. I am
not really sure why, but being to hard on yourself really has the opposite
effect then what was intended. Instead of seeing the things I did right, I find
myself pinpointing all the mistakes I did. I have a lot to work on here, but it
is hard.

## What is Sana Labs?

Sana Labs is working on **personalising learning for individuals**. It is such a
vast problem space. I love the grand vision and ambition to improve the world by
approaching how the world learns.

At Sana we are currently focusing on building an online learning platform
powered by AI. It is continuously monitoring the learners progress to figure out
strengths and weaknesses, skipping what you already know, making sure you master
the topics and that you maintain knowledge over time.

Not only that, Sana is also helping anyone that's _teaching_ in building out
courses. _Is the question clear and concise instead of confusing and complex for
learners?_ Teaching, and building courses, is not an easy task. All learners are
perceive the material in their own way, and great teachers understand this. Sana
will help teachers be more data-driven, adaptive and aware. It all comes
together beautifully to improve _how the world learns_.

---

What I am transitioning into here is a role where I can think more long term. I
will be able to care for the product and the vision. I will be able to enjoy the
ups and downs with the people around me.

I am really looking forward to _be able to_ depend on other people. And build a
great product.
